Tutorial: https://gist.github.com/dehsilvadeveloper/c3bdf0f4cdcc5c177e2fe9be671820c7

# Installing Docker on WSL 2 with Ubuntu 22.04

## Prerequisites

Before start the installation process, make sure you meet the following prerequisites:

- A Windows 10 operating system with WSL 2 support.
- WSL 2 enabled.
- Ubuntu 22.04 installed on WSL 2.
## Step 1: Update the system

Before installing Docker, it is a good practice to ensure that all system packages are up to date. Open terminal and connect to WSL Linux distribution:
```bash
wsl
```
and run the following command:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
```

## Step 2: Install dependencies

Install the required dependencies for Docker:

```
sudo apt install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
```
## Step 3: Add Docker GPG Key

Add the official Docker GPG key:

```
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg
```
## Step 4: Add the Docker Repository

Add the Docker repository to the system:

```
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/docker-archive-keyring.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
```
## Step 5: Install Docker Engine

Update repositories and install Docker Engine:

```bash
sudo apt update
```

```bash
sudo apt install -y docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
```
## Step 6: Add you user to Docker Group

Add your user to the Docker group to avoid the need to use sudo on every Docker command:

```
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```
## Step 7: Check the installation

Close the open terminal on Ubuntu. 

Restart WSL via the Windows command line (Powershell).

```
wsl --shutdown
```

Access Ubuntu again. Check if Docker was installed correctly on the Ubuntu terminal:

```
docker --version
```

You should get a response similar to this:

```
Docker version 26.1.4, build 5650f9b
```
## Extra tips

### Docker start up and shut down

To **start** the Docker service run the following on the Ubuntu terminal:

```
sudo service docker start
```

To **stop** the Docker service run the following on the Ubuntu terminal:

```
sudo service docker stop
```

### Projects location

The performance of WSL 2 lies on running everything within Linux, 
so avoid running your projects with Docker from the `/mnt/c` path, as you will lose performance.

### Opening folders via terminal

You can **open a folder** from Ubuntu with Windows Explorer by typing the command on your Ubuntu terminal:

```
explorer.exe .
```

The folder will be open using the Windows Explorer.

Remember to navigate to the desired folder on Ubuntu terminal beforehand.

### Copy folder from Windows to Ubuntu

On the Ubuntu terminal confirm that you can access the mounted drive and all its directories using the command below.

```
sudo ls /mnt/*
```

You have to see the list of folders and files currently present on your Windows C:/ folder.

If you can see the items just fine, then navigate until the destination folder on the Ubuntu terminal and use the following command.

```
cp -r /mnt/c/my-folder .
```

Where "my-folder" is the name of the folder on Windows that you want to copy and "**.**" indicates the destination. Since that we are already on the destination folder we can use just "**.**" , but you can inform the desetination path too.

```
cp -r /mnt/c/my-folder /home/my-user/my-folder
```

### Opening project on Visual Studio Code

You can open a project with the IDE **Visual Studio Code** by typing the command on your Ubuntu terminal:

```
code .
```

Remember to navigate to the desired folder on Ubuntu terminal beforehand.

### Free cached memory on Ubuntu

To free cache memory on Linux Ubuntu running on WSL you can use the following command on the Ubuntu terminal:

```
echo 1 | sudo tee /proc/sys/vm/drop_caches
```

### Windows Terminal

To access your environment through Windows, I recommend using the [Windows Terminal](https://apps.microsoft.com/detail/9n0dx20hk701?hl=pt-br&gl=BR) by Microsoft, also available on the **Windows Store**.
This tool includes CLI tabs, a high degree of customization, and even native WSL support to open Linux-based windows.

### Want to learn more?

If you want to see the official documentation, visit https://docs.docker.com/desktop/wsl/